# Isaac Lindroos: AS91896
### Use advanced programming techniques to develop a computer program (Level 2, 6 credits)

#### Task:
Create a program that works as a tool to allow users to solve a specific problem.  

#### Problem: 
Parents and students would like a Budget Laptop Calculator to assist them in figuring out the prices of a laptop that is fit for purpose at school. For example, the student needs his laptop for 3d modelling, must have a minimum RAM of 16GB, this tool would suggest possible laptops and a predicted budget.

You need to think about the context this calculator would be used in, the end users and the usability of such a tool and plan accordingly. You are encouraged to refine and redesign your calculator interface based on your own goals.  

#### Your task is to create a functional prototype to suit the needs of your potential users. You may create a text-based program or a GUI interface (which will require a library like tkinter or PyQt5).
- - - -
# Prerequisites
To successfully run this program, you need to first setup your Python development environment. Specifically, this program requires:

## Software & Extensions:
* VS Code
* The VS Code Python extension
* Python 3 or later

## Environments:

* `pip`	

The Python package manager that installs and updates packages. It's installed with Python 3.9+ by default (install python3-pip on Debian-based OSs).

* `venv`

Allows you to manage separate package installations for different projects and is installed with Python 3 by default (install python3-venv if you are using a Debian-based OS)

* `conda`	

Installed with Anaconda and Miniconda. It can be used to manage both packages and virtual environments. Generally used for data science projects.


### Create a virtual environment

To create a virtual environment, use the following command, where ".venv" is the name of the environment folder:

```shell
# macOS/Linux
# You may need to run sudo apt-get install python3-venv first
python3 -m venv .venv

# Windows
# You can also use py -3 -m venv .venv
python -m venv .venv

```
>Note: To learn more about the `venv` module, see Creation of virtual environments at https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html

When you create a new virtual environment, a prompt will be displayed to allow you to select it for the workspace.

This will add the path to the Python interpreter from the new virtual environment to your workspace settings. That environment will then be used when installing packages and running code through the Python extension.

## Modules & Packages:

* Tkinter
* Tkinter Designer
* git
* pandas


### Install Tkinter Designer

There are Three options when installing Tkinter Designer:

#### Install with `pip`

```
pip install tkdesigner
```

#### Install with `poetry`

```
poetry new <gui_project_name> && cd <gui_project_name>
poetry add tkdesigner
poetry install
```

#### To run Tkinter Designer from the source code, follow the instructions below:

* Download the source files for Tkinter Designer by downloading it manually or using GIT.

```
git clone https://github.com/ParthJadhav/Tkinter-Designer.git
```

* Change your working directory to Tkinter Designer:

```
cd tkinter-designer
```

* Install the necessary dependencies by running:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

> In the event that pip doesn't work, also try the following commands:
> ```
> pip3 install -r requirements.txt
> ```
> ```
> python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
> ```
> ```
> python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
> ```
> If this still doesn't work, ensure that Python is added to the `PATH`.

#### This will install all requirements and Tkinter Designer. Before you use Tkinter Designer you need to create a Figma File.

### Install Git
### Install Pandas

- - - -

# UI Design

## Figma:

### Create a Figma Account
* In a web browser, navigate to figma.com and click 'Sign up'.
* Enter your information, then verify your email.
* Create a new Figma Design file.
* Get started making your GUI.

### Figma Design Formatting

The code generated by Tkinter Designer is based on the names of elements from your Figma design and, as such, you need to name your elements accordingly. In Figma, rename your elements by double-clicking them in the Layers panel.

#### Button:
Figma Element Name: `Button`
Tkinter Element Name: `Button`

#### Line:
Figma Element Name: `Line`
Tkinter Element Name: `Line`

#### Text:
Figma Element Name: `Text`
Tkinter Element Name: `"Name it anything"`

#### Rectangle: 
Figma Element Name: `Rectangle`
Tkinter Element Name: `Rectangle`

#### Text Area: 
Figma Element Name: `TextArea`
Tkinter Element Name: `Text Area`

#### Text Box: 
Figma Element Name: `TextBox`
Tkinter Element Name: `Entry`

#### Image: 
Figma Element Name: `Image`
Tkinter Element Name: `Canvas.Image()`

- - - -

### Element Guide

First, create a Frame that will serve as your Tkinter Window.

##### Adding Images:

* Images can be created using shapes and/or images.
* If you use multiple shapes/images, you must group them together by selecting them all and pressing <kbd>CTRL/⌘</kbd> + <kbd>G</kbd>
* After that name the element or group as `"Image"`.

##### Text (Normal Text):

* Use the <kbd>T</kbd> key to activate the text tool, then add text as desired.
* Text does not have to be renamed for use in Tkinter Designer.
* Explicitly press the Return Or Enter Key to move to the next line. 

##### Entry (Single-Line User Input):

* Activate the Rectangle tool with <kbd>R</kbd>.
* Adjust the Rectangle to your liking.
* Make sure the Rectangle is named "TextBox".

##### Text Area (Multi-Line User Input):

* Activate the Rectangle tool with <kbd>R</kbd>.
* Adjust the Rectangle to your liking.
* Make sure the Rectangle is named "TextArea".

##### Rectangle:

* Activate the Rectangle tool with <kbd>R</kbd>.
* Adjust the Rectangle to your liking.
* Make sure the Rectangle is named "Rectangle".

##### Normal Button:

* Add a rectangle to serve as a button in your GUI.
* Optional: Add text for the button.
* Select the button(Rectangle), and any optional text, then group them with <kbd>CTRL/⌘</kbd> + <kbd>G</kbd>.
* Name the group "Button".
